Readme
Author: Alban BRICENO
Affiliation : Université de Lille, FR
Contact: alban.briceno@univ-lille.fr


1. File contents

• VIBROTACTILE_SPEAKER_ENCLOSURE_v1.stl (for 3D printing)
• LASERCUTTING_VIBSPEAKER.svg (for CNC laser cutting and engraving)
• LASERCUTTING_VIBSPEAKER.pdf (same file but in pdf version)
• BOM_Speaker.xlsx (standard Bill of materials)
• 8CHVIBspeaker_REAPERpreset.FXP (REAPER ReaSurroundPan Preset for the device control)
• Readme


2. CNC laser cutting and engraving preprocessing

The operating procedure for laser cutting and engraving may vary from one machine to another.
As it stands, these files feature 0.1 mm thick lines and two colors: the red lines (255; 0; 0 RGB) are for cutting, while the blue lines  (0; 0; 255 RGB) are for engraving.
The engraving uses the laser's Vector mode, which lowers its power comparing to cutting. Please use this mode rather than the Raster mode which is not optimal in this case.
Please note that this system may vary according to the CNC laser used, or may need to be parameterized in its control software. Please edit the .svg file accordingly using editing software (such as Inkscape or CorelDRAW).

3. Device control / ReaSurroundPan REAPER Preset 

The preset file must be imported from REAPER into the ReaSurroundPan plugin. 
To configure your REAPER session and control the device:
  a. set your multichannel audio interface device in your computer's audio output configuration AND in REAPER's Settings window (you may need to install drivers supplied by the manufacturer).
  b. set the Outputs in the MASTER track ("ROUTE" button); Track channels = 8; Audio Hardware Output "multichannel-source" = "1-8".
  c. load "ReaSurroundPan" from the MASTER FX window ("FX" button).
  d. import the preset file from the "+" button, then "Import VST patch/bank file".
  e. insert a new track, then any virtual instrument or audio input.
  f. ROUTE the track signal to the MASTER "ALL" -> "1-8"; Track channels = 8.

For the best experience, we recommend inserting a low-pass filter after the instrument to cut frequencies above 250 Hz.
You can control the source using a pointing device (mouse, touchpad, touchsreen, trackball), automation or MIDI hardware interface (fader, pad).
Be careful not to exceed the peak level or send too much power to the speaker.

4. Licence

Hardware and files: CC-BY 4.0.
For further information, please visit: https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/
